Other examples that I want
to talk about as well.
There's different packages for XState.
We talked about xstate/react and
xstate/vue.
If you want a very small version
of XState, less than 2 kilobytes,
then there's xstate/fsm.
So in the first half of this workshop, we
talked about flat finite state machines.
So that's state machines without nesting,
without hierarchy or any of that.
And for a lot of use cases,
that works pretty well.
But we saw that with combinatorial
explosion, you do need those nested and
those orthogonal states
in order to organize and
maintain your states in a much better way.
And so
the xstate/fsm package provides a very,
very similar setup to what XState provides
you, with one difference, no hierarchy.
And that's what allows this
package to be really small.
Additionally, there is
the xstate/test package.
And so this package is really useful for
testing, and
not just testing your state machines,
but testing any app at all.
It utilizes something that's
called model-based testing in
which there's an article here and a talk
here that I really recommend you watch.
Because model-based testing is
another one of those techniques which
is not talked about too much nowadays,
but it is a really powerful technique.
In essence, a model-based test is a test
that's, well, based on the model.
You create the model of your
application which is saying that this
application behaves in this way.
We have one state where the user could do
this, or the user could do something else.
And depending on what the user does,
you go to different states.
And when you define
your model in that way,
you could use that model
to test your application
by adding test inside
the state definition.
So you could have a meta, test, and, for
example, over here, we're waiting for
the input to be checked.
So what xstate/test is going to do
is it's going to essentially write
all of your end-to-end tests for you.
You specify what the states are, what the
transitions are, what those events mean.
So for example,
if I have a button click event,
I want to map that to
directly clicking a button.
And if I'm in a state, I want to assert
that I am actually in that state.
What XState is going to do then is
it's going to trace all the paths
from the initial state
to every other state and
make sure that all those
paths are traversable.
And if it's not, xstate/test is going
to tell you exactly where it failed.
So model-based testing is
a very powerful technique for
auto-generating tests
instead of handwriting tests.
So there's a really good post
on model-based testing if
you're interested by Sauce Labs.
So model-based testing.
And it talks about,
it's this one, the challenges and
benefits of model-based testing.
So if you're interested,
I really recommend you check that out.
So another interesting addition to
XState recently is xstate/immer.
So the more you work with XState, the more
you find that things start making sense.
You start thinking in terms of models, and
in terms of events, and state transitions.
And it's really useful, but
you also find yourself maybe
being a little bit frustrated with
how you assign and update states.
And that's where xstate/immer
comes into play.
If you haven't heard of immer, immer
is a really, really useful library by
Michel Weststrate, where immer allows you
to basically take your state, mutate it.
And it's not really mutating,
it's mutating a proxy of the state.
And whatever mutations you make,
it's going to apply those
immutably to the original state.
And so
we could do the same thing in XState.
So by using immer in XState,
now your assignments look very mutable.
But behind the scenes,
for example, ctx.count++,
behind the scenes,
these are immutable updates.
And so this is really useful if you
want to describe logic safely and
state updates in a safer way.
But just making sure that you
are immutable all the way through.
So I highly recommend you
check out xstate/immer.
It's a really useful library and I've been
using it to help with XState work as well.
So Matt asks in the chat,
if you use xstate/fsm and
after integrating,
you feel like you need full exit.
Is it a matter of switching packages?
Yes, so if you have xstate/fsm,
you could use the exact same
machine that you create in
xstate/fsm with normal XState.
So upgrading is seamless.
All you do is you get rid of this @ sign,
you get rid of FSM,
and everything is going
to work exactly the same.